website versus salesperson who's gonna
be the winner
[Music]
hey I'm Sam Dunning co-owner every
choice uk.com and host the top 100 B2B
marketing podcast business Cruise show
if you haven't yet check out my weekly
email where I'm showing actual website
and marketing tips free goodies
resources and more to kick off your week
with a bang give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot email
so in today's episode Benjamin dennehay
in the UK's most hated sales trainer
actually invited me onto his show we
battled it out on whether your website
beats a salesperson we have a healthy
debate there's a lot of banter a lot of
back and forth well I'll share some
actionable tips how to make your website
a 24 7 sales rep to generate a steady
flow of sales leads to fuel your team
and fuel your growth and revenue we also
talk about how I got into sales and also
how to leverage LinkedIn to drive sales
opportunities with that let's dive in so
today I have a great guest I've been on
his podcast a couple of times and we've
had an awesome time whenever we've been
together he's well known on LinkedIn
he's a creator of fantastic websites uh
he has an opinion on why websites are so
much better than sales people so I would
like to introduce you all and I'm sure
you already know if you follow me but
this is Mr Sam Dunning welcome Sam hey
Benjamin good to be here man thanks for
having me on and excited to have a chat
yeah indeed so as we say the purpose of
my podcast is um most podcasts want to
speak to really cool people and leaders
and gurus and all that and I said I want
to talk to ordinary everyday folk who
are out there in business and who are
selling because the people in the treats
are the one that man are the most none
of these you know thought leaders or
stuff like that even though I'm not
saying you're not but you know where I'm
going at you know so first question I
always ask everybody is how on Earth to
do an up in sales
oh that's a good question
um so mine's a bit of a funny one
actually so back if we rewind I'm 31 now
but back to when I was about 17 18 or so
I used to have an obsession with a game
called World of Warcraft like I used to
play this game like crazily it sucks
basically sucked my life in for many
years and then eventually I still live
my parents are like Sam you've got to
get a job if you want to stay here so
it's like fair enough
um so I worked initially just handed my
CV into a bunch of places
um and jessup's Camera shop if you
remember them I do not sure if they're
still on the High Street in the UK but
um they they accepted me in I had a at
the time I was doing media in college so
it was kind of relevant and that made me
realize I actually hate the general
public because working in retail is
probably the ultimate patience test so
my wife now she's she's a manager and a
retail store and I have no idea how she
does it because the amount of abuse
people would give you and the thing was
like when I was working there you were
told to go up to prospects that might
have been looking at cameras video
cameras you name it and say look Hi how
are you doing can I help you today and
really that's the worst question you can
ask people because it literally
infuriates people and you'd have like
middle-aged men saying what do you mean
how you can help me if you want to help
me boy put on the kettle make me a cup
of tea and get out my way and stuff like
that
literally within six seven months I was
like I was at my Wit's End I was like
I'm on minimum wage this is not doing me
any favors and my cousin who's now one
of the co-owners here at webchoice
basically said there's a potential job
going up at a company that builds
websites
so I literally took an interview there
and went for a few questions with the
owner at the time and then the next day
said you can start so I quit jessup's on
the spot got into web choice and um
started mess around with all sorts
really a bit of project management a bit
of selling
um a bit of kind of team management kind
of learning how to build websites
eventually learning SEO and that was
kind of the the starting point really
wow so there was never play so you're
like virtually everyone it was not
planned it's just something you fell
into yeah yeah no it is this is like I
said 95 of people who find themselves in
sales have got there that route uh and
as you know I bang them that's why it's
not a profession it's called a
profession but you know there are not
many laws or surgeons who just fell into
it are they so yeah no no so this is
interesting okay so what is it about
sales that keeps you coming back because
I mean it can be if you're bad or
mediocre quite a soul destroying and
really really tough at times what is it
that keeps you coming back yes that's a
tough one I'm not sure if there's one
single answer I mean the good thing
about selling is like we're being blunt
you can earn decent money so it's one of
those careers where you don't
necessarily need to have an education
for years and years like you said being
a doctor being a surgeon and you can
earn decent cash now of course it's not
as simple as that because I run a
business so I've got 100 other things to
consider just like yourself
um and a team but
it's one of those things like I'm sure
you've had many guests say the same when
you're selling
you can kind of raise the roof or raise
the ceiling as where to where where you
want to get to by how much you educate
yourself how much you put yourself out
there for example when I
for years ago I mean up until probably
four or five years when I didn't have a
sales process I didn't qualify prospects
in didn't qualify out didn't have a
systematic thing that I followed to
actually get deals from initial
conversation through to one business
then it was painstaking then I'd kind of
forever have deals on my pipeline that
were stalling and things like that but
once you kind of realize that you
actually need to invest in yourself
whether that's watching videos reading
books podcasts mentors coaches however
you want to do it as many ways you can
go about it it switches things up big
time and you realize like I've been
doing things stupidly for years and
years yeah I mean that's a really good
point you need a process you need a
structure with selling and a lot of
sales people
as you put it they don't have that which
means you're just on a rap race and
you're you're spinning this wheel and
it's just dumb luck yeah it comes over
the line and you don't control it too
many people don't control the sales
process it's really good that you
pointed out that a process and the
structure is important and as I say I
don't think it matters which process or
structure you follow just follow one and
get really good at it I I don't say just
follow me my Way's the only way do Zig
Ziglar you know do uh spend uh in all of
the different types are out there just
keep good at one of them and you'll make
money okay so let me ask you this thing
as you point out you're not just a
Salesman you run a business so you're an
entrepreneur so it means you've got many
many hats on right
um help me out here I admire people that
have employees I can't do it I've tried
I am not a manager
of people so tell me how you uh how do
you find the patience and the resilience
and the skill to manage people
well I'm lucky that I've got two other
co-owners as a first as a first point so
it's not purely me with kind of all
stress and things and when there's
issues on on my head but yeah it's a
difficult one I suppose my situation is
a little bit different because me and
one of the other owners do a lot of the
the sales side of things then the rest
of our team tend to do the execution so
like designing sites delivering sites
SEO strategies paid ads and they'll look
after that whereas we're more in the
project management and sales side of
things so I get to do the bits and
pieces and the marketing that I enjoy
but that said there's always things
you've got to manage
so
one um
piece of advice that I was given a while
back which I think it was Morgan Ingram
when it came on my show business Grove
show
um was when you're wanting to deal with
people one of the best things you can do
early on is actually understand how they
like to take feedback
so you can literally have a conversation
with them when they come on board and
say look do you want a direct approach
do you want me to be super blunt and say
look you've done this wrong but can you
look to improve this or would you rather
run more subtle like say look you're
doing this well but there's a b and c
that we should look to improve and
here's how we want to do it or is there
another way you'd like to take feedback
which I thought was a really good way
that way you can kind of tailor kind of
when things are going well not so well
on your approach to how you deal with
your team
um and another piece of advice oh get a
little piece of advice I was given is
when you're working with sales team
which is not so much relevant for myself
but I'm sure it might be useful for
people tuning in is um
kind of when you're sitting down with
your sales reps for meetings understand
what their main drivers are and I don't
just mean to earn money but I mean
personally like they might say for
example they want to make I don't know
10 grand in commission this quarter and
you say why is that important to you and
they might say well
because I want to do this I want to like
get a holiday I want to kind of get a
deposit on a house and then you want to
dive a bit deeper say why is that
important well me and misses are maybe
living with our parents at the moment
and they're starting to get stressful
and I want to kind of have a nice space
for ourselves to really get to the root
cause of the drivers of why they want
this money or this thing or whatever it
is and then lay down a step-by-step plan
so one of the great bosses I had when I
was working for a marketing company a
while ago is he actually laid out a plan
of how to make that happen so we
literally put down the Milestone she
said look week one we're going to do
this we're going to make calls we're
going to build the pipeline week two
we're going to do this we're going to
set meetings we're going to set them
we're gonna do this and then actually
sitting down with your reps laying down
a planet that was something that really
really helped me back in the day and so
there's just a few ideas all right all
right all the nice stuff's out of the
way now let's get to the meeting bench
here
you're a web designer
marketing
various hats you're on LinkedIn there's
so much noise out there about websites
about marketing and I have no doubt that
you have strong opinions on this so what
do you think is the biggest lie the
biggest BS that is pumped I'll link
dinner platforms about websites of
marketing that you wanna you wanna go to
town on because there'll be people
watching this that may be pushing that
very ideology so what is it so let's
let's have a fight go on what is it you
hate about the course there's probably
like 100 points
um I think probably one of the worst
ones which which isn't so relevant for
mid-sized businesses or large
corporations is the fact that you can
probably build your website and it'll
get results as in build it yourself
um so do a DIY Builder whether that's
WordPress template whether that's Wix
Squarespace things like that
um because the thing with building
itself is fine and you could probably do
an okay job to show your wares but when
it comes to if you're a solo product
could probably serve you right but when
it comes to kind of businesses that have
got 10 20
100 or more staff
it's not really going to work
um because ultimately these most
businesses especially in Tech SAS Etc
you name it rely on their website to be
one of their main providers as much as
you probably hate me to say this
Benjamin is for that inbound leads
they're demo requests their consort
requests you name it they're pumping
thousands a month into paid advertising
LinkedIn ads
uh email marketing SEO various marketing
channels driving people to this site so
this site needs to be a Workhorse to
Drive qualified opportunities to their
sales team and if you neglect it then
it's going to screw you up so what is
the biggest mistakes people do when they
build their own website then because
again you can build something that you
think looks really quite good and yeah
it's what you want it's got the
functionality they can click on this
they can watch this video they can go
through to a cart they could buy
something so you'll look there well well
this does everything that I need it to
do so what are the what are the big
ballsy mistakes they're making that they
shouldn't be I'd say probably the top
mistake when it comes to getting
websites that actually drive results AKA
inbound revenue is business owners
marketeers c-suite exact you name it
design it for ego rather they design it
to please themselves rather than their
target buyer the people that are
actually going to buy your
such a big mistake and I see it all the
time with like for example when we used
to build projects clients would just try
and take over and say we want it like
this we want all the colors red we want
the logo 10 times bigger all this and
that but really you've got to put your
own thought your own opinions to one
side because you're not buying your
stuff
you've probably got a warehouse full of
yourself you've got tons but you want to
sell it so understanding what your idle
client whether you're selling to
marketing execs in I don't know
agricultural software industry or
whether you're saying someone completely
different you need to understand what
their main drivers are what they care
about what their main problems are so
you can leverage that on your website
quickly quickly show them the bits and
pieces they want to see to in order to
give them an informed decision make them
feel like you're someone you can trust
and then guide them to take the next
step it's interesting how you say that
ego because ego also is equally
applicable when you're in the sale uh
some people love to talk about what they
love which is the same as building a
website in the way that you want it to
be built you build it to please yourself
and satisfy you it's funny because when
I had mine built I said to the guy I
said look I said just the cart blood you
do whatever is required to make you're
the expert I'm not I don't know and I
accept that if I build a website that I
like that I'm probably building it for
me and not for my audience so you build
it in a way that you think will make it
work there are just certain things I
wanted and I want my brand logo and I
want my name but other than that you
figure out everything else and I stood
back because what's the point of paying
someone
all this money to be an expert and they
say yeah yeah but I still want to do it
this way it's like and you know he said
you wouldn't do that with a lawyer or a
doctor right yeah I hear you good advice
that's like you're an idiot but you're
right people are ego ego ego ah so we
were talking just before the podcast
came on about
um you think websites are better than
sales reps explain
yeah they are so your website is
literally better than any salesperson
there's a number of reasons because of
that I mean your website's Live 24 7 is
constantly in front of your ideal
prospects right little target audience
on the basis that you Market it
effectively and you're displaying
content you're getting ads your
Marketing in front of the channels they
actively use
so the the other thing is that websites
do have emotions so as we talked about
then websites don't have an ego so on
the basis that you're actually designing
it for Target clients and by that I mean
you're leveraging things like in your
content in your messaging the main
problems that you fix that your target
audience really care about you're
leveraging the main benefits they want
to see you're using your website to
build trust
with things like social proof so whether
that's reviews testimonials videos case
studies all that good stuff
um and also your website's not afraid to
qualify people out whereas many sales
people are and a lot of businesses are
scared to share things like pricing on
their website whereas I say it's one of
the best things you can do because your
website could generate a ton of leads
but they could all be poor fit wrong
type of client or they couldn't afford
what you do pricing having a range of
pricing options on your site means that
your sales rep can speak to people you
can afford your stuff rather than
wasting everyone's time
um and also your website can convert if
it's like I said if it follows the right
steps in terms of Designing copy and
build it can convert a steady flow of
opportunities whereas sales reps would
rather hang out on LinkedIn send a few
emails and they'll be done for the day
well interesting you say that because
everything what you have said sounds to
me and a website's designed to take an
order right
design yeah pretty much yeah and most
sales people are actually order takers
they're just really crappy ones no I I I
I I think so I disagree technically with
the phrase that they're better than
sales because most sales reps are order
takers I think what you mean is that
websites are much better order takers
and they're just honest about it whereas
a sales rep thinks they're in sales
right it's not far off yeah yeah yeah
because I don't think a website can suck
I think you could do exactly what you've
said it could it could draw people in it
could it can answer their intellectual
questions a lot of people if they come
into your website they've already made
the decision they're going to buy they
just need the intellectual you know
satisfaction that this is for them so I
think they are great at uh you know
taking orders but um I don't think they
sell I jump in with a few things so
there's different types of traffic you
can get to your website or different
types of visitors love it ranging from
people that are super warm yep to people
that are cold so let me give you two
examples someone that's super warm
Benjamin your case might be someone
that's followed your videos your text
posts your content on LinkedIn for six
months a year or longer so they've
warmed to you they've got an idea for
your personality what you're like and
they're gonna head to your website
probably doesn't matter that much how
bad your website is because they've
followed you for so long they already
trust you unless your website takes
about 20 seconds to load looks awful
it's difficult to navigate and can't let
them do the transaction maybe they want
to book onto your course uh let's say it
doesn't do anything that they're
probably still going to buy from you or
request a console now that's a warm lump
um visitor let's go to the other side
someone that's maybe just stumbled you
upon you on Google maybe they've
searched
I don't know some type of sales training
phrase for example maybe they've just
flicked on one of your YouTube videos
for the first time
um or maybe they've come through some
kind of cold advertisement on Google
Facebook you name it then they flicked
on your website that's completely type
of completely different type of visitor
because they're not aware of who you are
um they don't know what you do exactly
they don't know how you can help them
now this is where your website can kick
in because it can clearly show problems
that you solve
um it can build some trust like I said
with social proof reviews testimonials
case studies but it can also handle
objections so one of the best things
about your website is what I recommend
people do is they sit down with their
sales team today grab them a beer grab
them A coffee list down the top
objections and frustrations that you get
on a daily or weekly basis from your
prospects or customers make a full list
of them then leverage them on your
website copy where relevant so what you
can do is if you've got key service
Pages or key product pages whatever on
each one where relevant at the bottom
have a section of FAQs where you list
out those top three or four questions
that are relevant maybe you have a video
answering them maybe you just have text
and this can help kind of convert
skeptical prospects
um and it also can save your sales team
time because you've literally answered
the question before it comes up on a
sales call so that's super effective as
well as having kind of trust Builders
and then qualifiers like sharing your
process who you can who you can't help
and then
guiding people with pricing and then
making it easy for them to give you a
call or request a consult whatever you
want to do demo okay okay all right no
no I'll take that that's a good point
actually so no that is a good point all
right I'll give you that okay so uh let
me ask you this sin
um
a lot of people want to set up their own
businesses a lot of people want to go
into web design and so many people
actually because they think it's easy
don't they just like a lot of people
think sales is easy what is the most
challenging and difficult thing about
selling what you sell do you think
making money
so
I I did a post about this earlier so
I'll give you an example from my own
case so when we started I used to try
and sell to anyone and everyone and it's
not that hard to sell websites for 200
300 500 quid but you're gonna stress the
heck out of yourself and as with most
things when you sell cheap the clients
tend to be the most problematic and they
tend to want the Earth on a stick for 20
quid
not all the time but it's it's quite
often the case
um from my experience anyway so it means
that you're yes you're selling stuff but
it's unless it's just yourself or you're
doing this on the side you're not really
going to make much cash and you can
cause yourself more harm than good
you're stressing out forever building
these kind of cheap sites where clients
want unlimited revisions
however if you Niche down
um so if you think well I'm specifically
want to Target this industry because I
know that the sites we build are going
to be really useful for them for example
we tend to now whilst we do other ranges
because we get inquiries from like b2c
companies Etc we tend to focus on like
B2B businesses that want their website
to act as a
a lead generator for their sales reps
whether that's demos consorts Etc so
typically those companies are going to
have a decent sized sales force
um and they're gonna maybe you're
already being using their website but
it's not as effective as they hoped it
would be or maybe they're investing in
marketing but it's not converting a
steady flow of leads so we know that
that's the kind of Niche you want to
Target therefore the way we Market
ourselves the content I put on LinkedIn
the ads that we put out the podcasts I
put out on my channel are all geared
towards this type of audience it's the
type of marketing reflects that and
likewise the end product the tool that
the engine we use to then convert that
traffic the website is also geared to
speak to that type of audience so
understanding who you want to attract
who's actually got decent money to spend
with you who appreciates the product
um who's going to get real use and value
out of it and kind of niching down to
that I'm not saying you can do that
straight away because initially yes you
need cash flow you need to build up
taste testimonials case studies just
like we did but once you've got a bit of
cash in the bank once you've got those
kind of social roofs and you're ready to
ramp things up then kind of going taking
that next step is going to help out a
lot okay and what channels do you use
then to drive people to your website
because obviously a website's great but
if no one's going to it then it's a
useless uh it's utterly useless so you
you obviously you build great websites
that do everything that you've said but
you've got to get people there so you
must do this so what do you do how do
you drive people
to your website for your business yeah
one of the most important things right
because we've literally had clients
we've talked to and they want to spend
20 grand on a website or more and then
it's like what are you spending on
marketing or what are you going to keep
aside from marketing they're like oh not
really thought about that
um well that's the most important part
actually driving people to the site so
what we do I mean to give you an insight
into our top channels and then feel free
to quiz them if you want to know about
other Industries what might be effective
and so our main driver is SEO so we sell
SEO we very much practice what we preach
so in UK EU if you type in web
development company with Organic page
one and so that's right it helped me out
because a lot of people hear the phrase
SEO all the time it's constantly banded
around but I think there's a bit more to
it it's it's I know it stands for search
engine optimization it's being found
yeah I'm a sales Creator I mean it's
probably going to be one of the most
ubiquitous terms sales training cold
calling and there are thousands so how
do you yeah I mean don't give away your
secrets obviously but how would you get
someone like be some of Google sales
trainer
how would someone like me pop up no
matter where they are in the world I
mean it's I'm not asking for free advice
here but just just an overview of how
this works yeah so yours is a tricky one
right yeah SEO is basically the process
of getting your website organically in
the non-paid listings to page one of
Google
um to drive traffic inquiries whatever
you want to do now sales trainer that
term is extremely competitive right yes
so a big mistake that people do when
they come to seos they try to Target
massively competitive Search terms and
it's like unless you've got a massive
budget or a massive team to do this work
you're probably never going to do it
um so you want to Niche down with what's
called longer tail keywords
so what that might be for you is I don't
know best sales trainer in London or
wherever you let's say you've got a
let's say oh your case maybe you do a
bit of work with the finance market
right and I imagine they've got a decent
amount of cash to spend on projects yeah
um so you might go specific to that
industry because you know they're they
have a need so you might go
Financial sales training or sales
training for FX companies
yeah yeah so that's rather than going
for super competitive to self training
because any Tom Dick and Harry and also
you might get a range of inquiries like
no budget to a little bit
um so picking that Niche so going for
some Search terms that are relevant um
Niche Etc is a good first step and also
making sure they've got a bit of traffic
so using tools like semrush or Google
Keyword Planner you can research that
and obviously then with your knowledge
and skill you help people figure out
what those words should be and what the
term yeah exactly it's like trying to
rank for something like CRM and you're
going against HubSpot and Salesforce
ain't gonna happen yeah
and then yeah you'd map out a strategy
with work on your website off of your
website and you've seen something
interesting which I want to pick your
brain on as well you see paid adverts
and organic and am I like most people I
don't click paid adverts there's
something about paid adverts that
you recoil from why is that
it's a good point and one interesting
thing is Google are constantly trying to
tweak the way they present them like
Reese they used to say add and then they
said sponsored and then they changed the
color of the text sponsored and then
they flicked it again so they're
constantly testing waves that can make
people click through and think it's an
organic listing even though it isn't but
I'm the same like my reflexes because
I'm a marketing I don't want to cost
people like five quid 10 quid or how
much it is to click the ad I'd rather go
to the organic search but I think
it's a funny thing Benjamin I can't tell
you the exact psychology but I think
from what I've seen people place more
trust in organic listings because they
know they haven't paid make them just
look organic
just like many not just Google but just
like other aggregators like clutch G2 uh
capped error all these different listing
sites they're doing what they can to
make these sponsored listings look as
natural as possible but I imagine
legally because people are paying they
have to make them stand out a bit oh I
see so if I was doing paid advertising
I'd say no make it look or get don't I
don't care you don't need to so you know
maybe some legal requirement because it
is interesting why would you just not
let them look like all the others no one
would know when people would click on
them but yeah it's just yeah I don't
know you're right I don't know the
psychology it's like well if you paid to
be I think it is if you paid to be there
you're probably not that good
and I think that's the understanding
thing yeah I mean with with Google ads
you can do a mix right I mean if you're
for example if you're working in your
SEO depending on how competitive the
industry or the sector or the keyword
you're going after
what would be quite interesting is to
look at some of those for you like if
those industries that you wanted to tap
in and then see how competitive they
were but anyway that aside if you want
short-term results then sticking up
Google ads makes sense whilst SEO Works
going on because SEO tends to be a bit
longer
um or if you want more exposure so if
someone searches in your case FX
training FX sales training if they see
your ad and your organic listing it
might place a bit more trust because
they see them both
um and then likewise if you're on
LinkedIn it's just building up brand
okay okay
interesting that's very good actually I
think I think viewers are going to find
it most interesting okay so
um a few more questions looking back on
the journey you've been on to get from
where you are to who you are now what
has been the the worst moment of your
journey and what has been the best
moment in June and you can't say giving
birth to my son something like that yeah
you're allowed to do that it's gonna be
business related everyone always goes
for the soppy
no no no no no no let's focus on the
business
foreign
[Laughter]
it's much better nice too
um anyway yeah so worst part oh there's
been some been some terrible Downs like
we're discussing off there just like
when we were doing kind of real real
cheap websites trying to work with
anyone and everyone and you're just
tearing your hair out like because you
offer things like unlimited Provisions
which I think most business owners have
been there like at the moment at the
start you're just trying to pick up work
to get cash flow and things like that so
just picking up silly jobs doing stuff
super stupidly cheap saying yes to
everything and then just realizing that
you've invested so much time you've made
a loss you've stressed yourself out
you've probably stress your partner out
and whoever else so those kind of things
um and then yeah that before I work for
web choice I work for a marketing
company that tried to scale too fast
um so they hired a bunch of sales reps
and then like a month or so later it all
went Pete Tong all collapsed
um so luckily I came back to web Choice
and then eventually became an owner in
business and so I was quite thankful
where those those kind of things so
those were pretty bleak points just
yeah just kind of falling out of a
business and
stressful projects things like that and
I'm sure there's been plenty others
um
good points you know what's a high
there's loads really I mean we're
talking business-wise I guess that's why
you're not personal yeah yeah
[Music]
um
yeah there's a few I mean in terms of
the Pod I'm quite happy with how the
podcast is done so I run I run a show
called business Grace show B2B marketing
podcast and that started off as just a
hobby so I think literally I just
interview people I admired sales
trainers marketers I wanted to learn
from and then um over time we geared it
into more of a tool to interview kind of
B2B marketers leaders and things like
that to actually give actual advice on
B2B marketing and it's kind of become a
business in itself really so it's got
sponsorships it fuels web Choice with
leads and things like that so that's
quite a quite a good one and then of
course when you actually build a website
for a business that generates results so
when I when we actually build a website
an SEO campaign and then the business
come back and says look we're only
getting one or two leads a month and now
we're getting like five ten plus a day
so you've really kind of grown our
business grown our Revenue those were
always nice moments and then they'll
spend more cash with us so it works for
everyone
oh well that's that's good to hear okay
a couple more questions
um
sales people love this because sales
people are obsessed with reading what
what are you reading or what would you
recommend to a young
up and coming web developer or marketer
is there any particular thing that
you've read that really helped you that
you would want them to share
um most of the books I read are on sales
and marketing so rather than websites
generally
um so most of the stuff I've learned has
actually been by talking to marketers so
my big thing is podcasts so I'm terrible
at reading I'm super slow like my wife
can read a book in like a few hours
whereas it take me probably a few years
so I tend to consume most of my stuff on
the rotors podcast so yeah there's a lot
of a lot of things I listen to I
recommend aside from my issue I
recommend a show called everybody hates
marketers by Louis Grenier he's he's a
funny guy he does good stuff
um what else have we got Chris uh Chris
Walker's um state of demand gen is
really good just for kind of what's
going on in marketing today but those
two shows everybody hates everybody
hates marketers in the state of demand
Jenner probably two of my favorites
um but everything else I read is more on
sales is more on marketing just general
stuff because like I said having a sales
process is really important as a
business owner if you're selling people
all right and if there's any struggling
web marketer right now watching this uh
they're trying to build a business
they're they want to be their own boss
and be their own man or woman
um what advice would you give them right
now if they're feeling a little down or
they're feeling a little overwhelmed
that they're just think I don't know I
don't know if I'm gonna be able to make
this I don't know
I don't feel good enough what would you
say to them because you would have been
there I suspect it's not for everyone
um so you need to actually make sure you
get enjoyment out of some part of it
whoever that is and this is like this I
heard this a while ago I can't remember
what show it was on but you need to even
enjoy the work itself so if you design
and build the sites yourself you need to
enjoy that or you need to enjoy the
process whether that's talking to
customers build them out or you need to
enjoy like the end result so when when
clients say look we've had this as a
result of your work so you need to enjoy
some element of it if you don't then you
need to do something else
um now that said that might sound a bit
blunt but it's true now with that in
mind then
um yeah there's there's always ways you
can pick up work so if you're like a new
website designer or something similar
marketer and you think you're struggling
there's a bunch of ways you can pick up
work
starting with your existing networking
connections is always one that I do when
I start new businesses so thinking up
who are
past customers past contacts past
colleagues who can you message who can
you call get on the phone to and say
look we've started this thing like do
you know anyone that that might find
this interesting or useful and things
like that there's always work to be
found always look for the quick easy
wins if you're on LinkedIn if you're
connected to people always look for the
quick wins because that'll get you work
straight out the bat
um and then from there then you can
start ramping up things like
building a brand on LinkedIn posting
content YouTube content podcast there's
so many free ways
um I've got tons of tips on my podcast
for that kind of stuff tons of ideas and
if you're struggling feel free to
message me on LinkedIn actually uh I
gotta ask you another question I just
thought of as you you just said
something there and I wouldn't mind your
thoughts on this yeah
um a lot of people on LinkedIn bang on
about creating a personal brand hmm
now I I heads up I have created a brand
but I am a one-man operation there's
nothing else there's no organization
there's nothing I literally am me so I
understand why someone like me
has it but you're someone who works for
a marketing agency or a big web
development company and they've got
everything you are just one of their
sales reps and one of their web
Developers
do you need a personal brand to sell I
mean what are your thoughts on this
because my fear is too many people are
being told to do something they don't do
I don't buy because of the salesman's
brand I buy IBM because it's IBM well
I've got I'm like you I've got an
opinion on this and when it depends what
angle you're looking at Benjamin because
some people's ideas of building a
personal brand is posting selfies every
day and posting their coffee and all
that and then if if none of
that ever links to the business or how
you help people or what you're actually
doing how the hell are you going to get
inbound leads
um if none of it's ever ever relevant to
your business and what you actually want
to drive revenue for how the hell do you
expect to throw business from it maybe
I'm like maybe I'm completely confused
and that is how you drive work but I'd
rather kind of give tips and advice
about what I'm actually trying to sell
so then people kind of place trust in me
but that aside you the scenario you said
was a sales rep for an organization the
thing is
It's tricky because if you're building
let's say I don't know you sell CRM and
it's dedicated to the finance industry
and if you're constantly if you're
constantly posting tips around Finance
CRM and Finance industry and trying to
help people on that what if you get
fired or if you lose your job or things
like that it's a tricky one because I
say you got sacked and then you work for
a completely different industry and if
you've built up your brand for a year
specifically on that topic and you'll
remember for that topic then what do you
do
um so I think if you're a sales rep your
time whilst LinkedIn is Going to Be an
Effective tool to to find prospects to
find your target market and to post
content sure you've also got to think am
I going to be in this industry for the
Long Haul if you are it's going to be
fine if you're not you might struggle
um because there's lots of other ways
LinkedIn is going to be useful for
prospecting and starting conversations
but the content side of things and
you've got to consider that
I think that is a an excellent point
actually what you've just tiled off with
there and when I set about creating my
personal brand I didn't actually set it
up to create a brand the goal was I
needed to be seen as an expert in what I
do and so the goal was never to call
myself an expert that's why I came up
with UK's most hated I wanted the exact
opposite
of of what an expert would be but over
time through providing content and
putting stuff up people started to say I
think this guy he's not just an idiot in
the red hat he actually kind of knows
what he's it's not crap but you are
right how do I take this personal brand
into any other
field
the only other field could be
motivational speaking but I'm never
going to feel motivational speaker so
you are right if you become an expert in
your field you have to be that's why you
got a lawyers and surgeons and that
they're Specialists and one thing I
think it's difficult for reps right yeah
it's like if you're if you're a sales
rep or an exec you'd have to be a sales
rep but I think a lot of people that
want to generate revenue from linkedin's
on a sales notion or a marketing notion
now It's tricky because you're probably
if you're a sales rep you're probably
better off not spending too much maybe
using LinkedIn to find your prospects
maybe kind of messaging them voice
noting them videoing them starting
conversations getting info but at times
probably better spent offline
um I agree especially if you think
you're not going to stick out the
industry for the Long Haul
no no I think that I think that's an
excellent point to end on actually so if
you are a rep a sales rep or anyone out
there working for a you know a slightly
larger organization you may want to you
know double think about all this build a
personal brand because that is a good
point if you're not going to stay in
this industry
then you are wasting your time
yeah and it's very easy when you're
young though to make big Greg oh yeah
I'll be here I I know trust me kid uh
when you get a bit older you suddenly
realize that uh no I made it for that
that doesn't apply to everyone there's
always exceptions there's always
exceptions let's get that right but
statistically the odds are you'll
probably move on to something else in
another sector or another field and all
that energy and effort would have been
wasted or if that could end up coming
back to hurt you because well I thought
you're an expert in this how can you now
be next so good okay so let's wrap it up
I've enjoyed our chat uh Sam must be
very very good so the usual
shouldn't have to do this but how do
people find you how do they get yeah
yeah so feel free to connect me on
LinkedIn Sam Dunning um if you want free
tips if you want to steal my ideas on
websites marketing and all things SEO
check out business growth show B2B
marketing podcast
um or otherwise if you're tired of your
competitors stealing your leads your
clients because they're higher on Google
or perhaps you're investing in marketing
and infrastrated your website it's not
converting the hardened visitors into a
steady flow of leads or inquiries or
maybe you work with an agency already
but they're not giving you the results
they promised feel free to get in touch
it's webchoiceuk.com
Perfect all right everybody well I hope
you've enjoyed this conversation today
I'd like to say my my talks aren't
designed to be con not controversial
argumentative if it's not the way I do
it it's just literally to talk to people
then uh out there every day slogging it
living everything they teach and preach
uh and there are too many people out
there who don't live what they teach and
preach
um so that's why I'm talking to the real
people doing the real things in the real
world and there you have it I hope you
found mine and Benjamin's conversation
of use as always if you enjoyed today's
episode a quick review or rating on your
audio podcast channel is appreciated or
subscribe if you're viewing on YouTube
goes a long way and with that I'll catch
you on the next one cheers